{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green102\blue204;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\f0\fs24\b\fs32 GOOGLE ADS API - INTEGRATION DESIGN DOCUMENTATION\b0\fs24\par
\pard\cf3\fs20 Applicant: Felipe Salazar Jimenez | Account ID: 162-975-6396\cf1\fs24\par
\par
\pard\b\fs26 1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY & INTENDED USE\b0\fs24\par
This design document describes the technical architecture and API integration patterns for a custom internal campaign management and optimization platform. The tool is developed for internal use by a single advertiser account (162-975-6396) to manage search campaigns, automate keyword bids, and adjust daily budgets based on performance KPIs.\par
The application acts as a secure local API client/agent, querying campaign performance metrics and sending management directives back to the Google Ads API.\par
\par
\pard\b\fs26 2. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE & DATA FLOW\b0\fs24\par
The tool is designed as a standalone secure node service running on a local desktop environment. It interacts directly with Google's servers over TLS 1.3 encrypted REST/gRPC endpoints.\par
\par
\b Data Flow Cycle:\b0\par
1. The tool authenticates using OAuth 2.0 credentials (Client ID, Client Secret, and Refresh Token).\par
2. A secure session client is initialized using the Developer Token (Test/Basic Level).\par
3. The tool queries campaign metadata and metric performance.\par
4. If performance KPIs (e.g. Cost Per Conversion) exceed predefined thresholds, the system executes mutative actions (pausing keywords, adjusting budgets) via secure mutate requests.\par
\par
\pard\b\fs26 3. SPECIFIC GOOGLE ADS API SERVICES & METHODS TO BE USED\b0\fs24\par
The application will communicate with the Google Ads API v16/v17 using the following specific services and methods:\par
\par
\pard\li360\b a) GoogleAdsService (Search & SearchStream)\b0\par
\i Method:\i0  {\f1\fs18 GoogleAdsService.SearchStream}\par
\i Query Syntax:\i0  Google Ads Query Language (GAQL).\par
\i Purpose:\i0  To pull daily performance metrics (Impressions, Clicks, Cost, Conversions, Search Impression Share) at the Campaign, Ad Group, and Keyword level to feed the automation logic.\par
\par
\b b) CampaignService (MutateCampaigns)\b0\par
\i Method:\i0  {\f1\fs18 CampaignService.MutateCampaigns}\par
\i Purpose:\i0  To adjust campaign daily budgets dynamically when high-converting periods are identified or to cap budgets when efficiency drops.\par
\par
\b c) AdGroupService & AdGroupBidModifierService\b0\par
\i Method:\i0  {\f1\fs18 AdGroupService.MutateAdGroups}\par
\i Purpose:\i0  To pause or activate specific ad groups dynamically based on real-time performance thresholds.\par
\par
\b d) AdGroupCriterionService (MutateAdGroupCriteria)\b0\par
\i Method:\i0  {\f1\fs18 AdGroupCriterionService.MutateAdGroupCriteria}\par
\i Purpose:\i0  To pause underperforming keywords or change keyword match types programmatically.\par
\pard\par
\pard\b\fs26 4. OAUTH 2.0 AUTHENTICATION & DATA STORAGE POLICY\b0\fs24\par
\pard\b\i Credentials Storage:\b0\i0  No credentials or sensitive API keys are hardcoded in the codebase. All secrets (Developer Token, Client ID, Client Secret, and OAuth 2.0 Refresh Token) are loaded at runtime from a secure, local environment configuration file (.env) protected by local OS-level access control lists (ACLs).\par
\pard\b\i Token Rotation:\b0\i0  Access tokens are refreshed dynamically in-memory using the offline Refresh Token flow. Expired access tokens are discarded immediately.\par
\pard\b\i Data Retention:\b0\i0  The tool does not store, cache, or transmit campaign data to any third-party databases. All analytics metrics pulled from the API are processed in-memory for the duration of the optimization loop and discarded.\par
\par
\pard\b\fs26 5. COMPLIANCE & RATE LIMITING RESILIENCY\b0\fs24\par
The system is built to strictly adhere to the Google Ads API Terms of Service:\par
* \b Rate Limits (429/ResourceExhausted):\b0  The client implements an exponential backoff retry mechanism (using standard gRPC status code hooks) to handle API rate limits gracefully without overloading Google servers.\par
* \b Mutate Operations:\b0  Mutate requests are sent in batches using the recommended mutate operations limit to ensure optimal transactional integrity.\par
}
